So what I'm going to show you
over the next series of videos
is how to customise your terminal.
And the customization isn't just for
adding some nice colours.
It's really to create an environment
that you like to work in.
There's nothing worse than having kind of a text
that is enforced on you
or a type of browser that you don't like using.
You'd much rather use a tool that you enjoy spending time in
if you're going to use it.
So customization's kind of a key part of that.
So I'm logged into my personal user at the moment.
If I just switch over to iTerm and open up a new window
you'll see the kind of view that I see.
So this image just loaded.
It is an upside down unicorn I believe.
And this is what my normal terminal looks like,
so every time I open a new terminal
I get a different ASCII unicorn
just to make things brighten up a little bit in my terminal.
You'll also notice that the prompt is completely different
to what you've seen in the previous videos.
You might be able to spot the colour
is slightly different in the background.
It's a little bit blue.
My prompt is down here.
I have this indicator bar over here.
So I just want to talk about some of the terminology
and some of the customizations.
And just to give you a feel for this as well,
when I view my terminal I always have it full screen
so it looks like this.
There's no bar at the top when I have anything else,
and I can switch back and forth from it
when I bring up Chrome for a second.
I can bring it to focus by doing command escape
and hitting command escape again.
So I run my terminal full screen
and I also have some shortcuts that I'm really used to
and I have the system configured
the way that I like to use it.
Now that doesn't mean you have to copy exactly what I have.
I have a blog post that describes kind of some of my setup.
I have some of the dotfiles, the configuration files
in gifhub that somebody else can use,
and a lot of other people put their dotfiles into gifhub
for you to kind of use and take what you want.
But for instance one of the most used tools I have
is this said, I just type a partial directory
and it jumps to that directory,
and you can see here very different prompt.
It tells me about the gifhub state of this folder.
So I know that this colour when it's green
it means that there's some dirty files in there.
There's something that's waiting to be changed.
I have the directory name above my prompt,
and over on the right here
I've got a little bit of custom code that tells me,
firstly I've got a dot that tells me
whether or not I'm online
because when I do some travelling I want to know if I have
an active connexion and it just kind of refreshes
every minute or so.
So a green dot means I have a connexion
and a red dot means I don't.
And this is a ...
My battery basically is sowed
because I spend quite a lot of time in my terminal,
I want to be able to see it at a glance
how much battery I have
so if I need a charge or anything like that.
And just a quick listing here gives you an idea
of kind of what my prompt looks like.
So I just want to go into a couple
of the bits of terminology around this.
The first one is ...
This programme iTerm2 and maybe you're using Terminal still
or a different programme altogether.
This is called the terminal,
the application that is running a shell,
and at the moment I'm logged into a shell.
So the shell really,
the difference ...
The way I look at it is that this grey bar here
and kind of resizing is the terminal
and how my mouse interacts with it is the terminal
and everything inside, the text part, is the shell.
So I can connect to a remote server, one of my web servers.
I can connect to another machine in my home
or when I'm at my work office I can connect to a machine
and I'll go into that shell.
And then a couple of important bits here,
this is the prompt
so where you type, we're already pretty familiar with it,
but we can customise it quite a lot
and I'm going to show you that in another video.
But there's also aliases, so commands that kind of ...
Short cuts to other commands that you can also write
functions that do things.
So one example, I have GS
which is something that I've kind of got as muscle memory.
GS to me means get status.
So I run GS and it shows me the get status
for this directory and tells me what's waiting to be changed
and so on.
And I have GP which will do a get push
and commit everything.
I have a few others that will do little things
here and there.
There are more complicated scripts like I can type gist
and it will, if I copy some text and then type gist,
it will take that text, copy it,
and create a new gist for me,
which you can see loading up now and you can see it there.
I can go ahead and share that with someone else.
So that's a function but still a command
that I ran inside of my terminal
and inside my shell and it gave me something back.
So I wrote a little bit of shove scripting code to do that.
Then on top of my terminal I have my preferences.
So if I go to preferences over here
and I've got a few things that I've customised to my liking.
The first one that I'd like to show you
is I've turned off the animations
when you go to full screen and away,
something that I prefer.
It's ... where is it ...
Use native full screen windows.
I've unchecked that so I can go full screen
without waiting for it to animate basically.
I'm also backing up my entire preferences,
which is down here.
You've got a direction name and it just saves it,
and I have a few other tweaks.
So I've got a bunch of profiles here,
which I don't really use.
I actually just reconfigure the default one
all the time.
I don't have anything special here,
but if I open a new terminal for instance,
I could have it show a different name,
run a command automatically.
I could stick some text in the prompt automatically.
I could define what directory it starts up in.
Like maybe I always go to my site's directory
so I could change that using this preference over here,
leave that in home,
and I've also got some colours that I've tweaked.
I've just selected the solarized light
or dark, which one is the one I'm using.
I think this one might be my default actually,
the one with the star.
It was the solarized dark.
I made a couple of customizations
and one of them was my cursor,
which is this colour here so you can see
it's kind of this bright pink,
which just kind of draws my eye in a bit more
and things like text I've selected a bigger font
so you can select the font size from here
and I'm using Menlo with Powerline,
and I'll include a link as to how to get Powerline.
What Powerline gives you is just a few more glifs,
like this thing.
You don't need it at all if you don't want to,
but it gives me just a few more characters
which make my terminal look a little bit nicer.
And then beyond that I really don't have very much,
but you can do things like opacity,
so you can make your window semi-transparent
so you can see things underneath it,
which some people like, not myself so much.
You can blur what's underneath and so on.
Where is that?
There we go.
And then the keyboard shortcuts.
So I think I mentioned
right at the beginning of this whole series,
being able to split screens is something I use all the time
and I use these split screens and also keyboard shortcuts
to navigate between the split screens.
If I bring this to full screen and then do command D
I get another window,
but I can do command shift left and right
and I can switch back and forth between the windows
and if I do command shift D I get one above
so I can use the cursor arrows to move around.
I find that particularly helpful for me.
You might have a set of keyboard preferences
that you prefer.
And then finally the hotkey.
This is the one I use,
show/hide terminal as a system-wide hotkey.
I use it, again you don't have to use this kind of thing
but I use command escape.
It's a keyboard combination I've had for years
and it's just kind of burnt into my memory
and that lets me kind of jump directly to the window
no matter where I am
so I can be browsing the internet, doing a thing,
and I can just do command escape
and the whole of my terminal comes to the forefront
and I carry on with what I'm doing.
So that's what my prompt looks like at the moment,
my terminal, my shell, the whole thing.
What we're going to look at next is a few tools.
The first thing that we're going to look at is called Fish,
which is a tool that you can just drop in
and it gives you a lot of this customization
straight out of the box
and really the idea is that you don't have to customise it
very much.
You can just kind of select the thing
that suits you the best
and it will just make the experience better for you,
and a lot of people use this.
But then beyond that we're going to look at
installing our own shell
and making adjustments to kind of customise things.
I'll show you how to make aliases and so on.
So I'll see you in the next videos.